---
title: "ideas"
date: 2012-07-04 01:42
---

One day, my friend and I decided to go to the bar. Drizzling and windy, it was a beautiful summer day in Paris.

My friend and I are both engineer. As such, we enjoy talking about technology and innovation. As old class-mates, we did
a couple of projects together, such as "The Head Traveler", a project that makes you travel through time, space
and memory simply by asking you to close your eyes and imagine things.

We are seating at the end of this long rectangular table. Each of us civilizely sipping our whisky on the rocks.
The conversation is focused around this yet-to-be-named project about how-tos, dinosaures and simplicity that we have. 
Multiple questions arise. I start thinking about Disneyland. If people use an application to tell them how to ride space-mountain,
would they need a video embedded in the explanations? Sand-castle. My glass is almost empty. People have filled the room and I'm grinning.

My friend stands up. "I'm getting us more drink", he says. I nod and turn-on my laptop. The Deerhunter are playing on
the stereo or maybe it's Britney Spears. Our phones are on the table. Things accelerate. Our brains start to receive an
unlimited stream of ideas. Innovation. Things are getting clearer by the second. Each words we say solves a problem.

My friend stands up again. At this time, he doesn't say anything but comes back with more drinks. More people are sitting
around us. Some decided to talk to us. We are both grinning. The stereo is playing Dirty Projectors or maybe it's Kanye West.

We are entering a new reality. We look at our phones with new eyes. It seems like we are explorators in a land filled with
oportunities. Everytime we take another sip, a new possibility arise. The vision narrows. Details get blurry. They vanish
and we are left with nothing but insight. Sip.

Soon we find ourselves digressing about teleportation. The question isn't "Is it physically possible?" but "How could we
do it?". Our brains work full speed. The reasoning isn't about obscure equation; but about obvious possibilities. There
is a simple answer for everything, surely there must be a simple answer to that inquery? "Let's create an app that lets
people teleport!". Problem solved. Next.

My friend gets up, or maybe it's me. The stereo is playing "Electric Light Orchestra", or maybe it's "The Backstreet Boys".
There are more people around us. More ideas flow from everywhere. My friend sits back, or maybe I do.

I'd like to stop right here. This is the exact moment I started to talk to utter an idea. I didn't know what the idea was
until I heard me say it out loud. This inside-out ellicitation of my neuronal connexions is what to be remembered as the highlight
of that evening. That moment was physically rewarding. You know this is something big because every part of your body wants to take action.
You want to do it. Before you even realize, you start to think of all the consequences this idea could have on your daily
life and on people in general. You see things in big. It's obvious. And then nothing else matters. You are in a blissful state and nothing could
ever make you feel bad. You found a meaning to your life, a path to greatness. You know Ayn Rand would be proud of you.

"Let's create an app with a cow that reads tweets aloud!!1, " says I, grinning. "And let's him have a snail companion that
shows images!".

And then the feedback. It's something intrinsic. I didn't need to hear his answer to know what he thought, his eyes and
chuckle betrayed him. Wasn't it obviously the best idea we had ever thought about? "And a turtle that shows where the tweets come from on a map!!1".

Then you wake up the next day. As a rule, I've told myself to wait until the next day to judge if an idea is good or not.
Coming back to reality is a strange process. You remember the enthusiasm; unfortunately, you also remember the idea that
caused it. How does something that seemed so clever and useful can become so futile in the course of a long sleep? Did some
commando get into my dreams and switched the real idea with a makeshift one, à la inception? Or maybe it was simply an idea
that belonged to another dimension, the one who's entrance is a couple of glasses.

I decided to make that idea. I build an app with a cow that talks, a snail that shows images, and I'm still working on the
turtle that shows a map. If a part of me decided that this idea was awesome at some point, then I shouldn't think twice
about making it. Who cares in the end if it's not the answer to life, the universe, and everything? It's still a freaking
cow that talks out loud.

